The moon looks absolutely beautiful tonight. Near full and complete, absorbing beauty--ethereal beckoning. 
It is clear and jasmine-white. It appears as the size of a marble. It exhibits terrain defined and lucid. 
The night sky is cloudless and jet-dark. It is like a curtain draping behind majesty. 
The moon is nothing like the stars, which are like floating grains of sand. 
The moon is like an insistent gift--refusing declination. 
Its maria are like the brushstrokes of artists. Its brightness is like a cold inferno. 
It is luminous like a jubilant memory. 
It is luminous like a lovestruck dream. 
It appears as the size of a marble, like a small opal of light. 
However, it is simply an illusion, and it cannot be held nor grasped. 
It cannot be moved nor covered. It cannot be touched nor tasted. 
You may attempt to snatch it with your fingers, but the image of the moon pierces through. 
Only when you close one eye does the moon disappear while doing so. 
However, to open both eyes, and to sustain their opening, is to apprehend the piercing luminosity of the moon.
Nevertheless, although one can hold it within their eyes and their mind's eye, the moon vanishes at daybreak.
Waxing and waning, disappearing and reappearing. 
I have once heard that the moon split from the Earth, destined to encircle it in a cosmic dance. 
Just how man split from the divine, and man from another. 
It is known that Terra is master of Luna, and Helios master of Terra. 
That is, one is subordinate to each other in terms of path.
Nevertheless, I have once heard that one's identity is their path, and nothing exists outside the path it walks. 
To be not scorched nor frozen, that is the origin of flora and fauna, animal and human. 
To be barren yet beautiful, that is the fate of the moon. 
These are what are called the birth-pangs of existence. 
By consequence of birth, the moon must vanish. 
By consequence of birth, the Earth must be subject to the sun. 
However, freedom resides elsewhere, else it could not exist. 
Freedom is not in sunlight, nor even does it abide intrinsically in the image of the moon. 
Freedom is not in the given, nor is it in the lost. 
Freedom may appear in the taken, and it may appear in the given up, but it is not born in either. 
Freedom abides purely in the luminous iron core of the Earth and moon--the light that exists but is never seen. 
It is the molten strength that shifts courses and orbits. 
It is the flame of creation and destruction in mortal terrains. 
Yet, it is hidden away. 
We only know it through the brightness of the sun and moon, which are of the same empty origin--born of reflective properties.
They wax and wane, disappear and reappear, but the incandescent core of Earth never changes. 
Never truly arising, never truly destroyed. 
I have once heard that the moon split from the Earth, destined to encircle it in a cosmic dance. 
Just how man split from the divine, and man from another. 
Yet, I have once heard that being and terrain are a mirage, and solitude as well. 
There is no solitude in the moon, for the moon is sister to the Earth. 
Moreover, the moon is not just sister to the Earth but its twin as well.
Moreover, the moon is not just twin to the Earth but formed of its very flesh. 
To apprehend this is to arrest the moon from its vanishing.
Nevertheless, I have seen the moon vanish as I have seen my dreams vanish. 
Nevertheless, I have seen the moon vanish as I have seen my memories vanish. 
To know is never enough.
To remember is never enough. 
To dream is never enough.
Only to be free is to be victorious. 
Only to subdue memory like the Earth subdues the moon is to be free. 
Only to subdue dream like the sun subdues the Earth is to be free. 
Yet, to know truly is to subdue. 
The retainer of memory is the storehouse of freedom. 
To locate the false vanishing, the truth of the radiant permanent moon, is to steal victory. 
To steal victory is to know completion. 
To know completion is to know it is the case that the Vanishing Moon never vanished. 
To keep both eyes open is to be pierced by the image of radiance. 
To close one eye is to witness the vanishing of the moon. 
To close both eyes is to deny the gift that is given. 
To perform all actions freely is to arrest the moon in place. 
To let the eyes wander freely through the wine-dark cosmic seas as if they were not yours--that is luminous skill. 
For the two centers of the eyes to become like the two centers of the Earth and moon is to apprehend the true nature of the vanishing moon. 
For memory to shift from crust to core, and dream from surface to nucleus--that is to transform the soil of failure to the soil of victory. 
So I say thusly:
The moon looks absolutely beautiful this evening.
Sivan 14
